Ahyoung Lee
ahyoung

AHYOUNG LEE received her M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in computer science and engineering from the University of Colorado, Denver .  She was a postdoctoral fellow at Georgia Institute of Technology in the BWN Lab under the supervision of Prof. Ian F. Akyildiz with a research project focused on Software Defined Networking (SDN). Currently, she is an Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science at Kennesaw State University. Her research interests focus on modeling and analysis with applications in SDN, Mobile Wireless Networks, Sensor Networks, Cyber-Physical Systems, and LoRaWAN; future Internet architecture for improving big data centers, Internet of Things (IoT), and Internet-centric technologies in Cloud/Fog/Edge for network management.

Currently, her research focuses on Green Communication Systems and Networks in the areas of sustainable and green-enabled communications and computing networks, as well as communication and computing technologies enabling other green solutions such as smart grids, green cloud and fog computing data centers, green buildings and green logistics, and smart cities.  Thus, I am a VIP team leader PI for L3BN: Low-Power Low-Cost Long-Range Broadband Networking Lab. If you are interested to join L3BN lab please contact me. 

and her lab is 
Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to footer
Kennesaw State University
KSU Home Arrow Navigate Icon
Current Students



Faculty & Staff



Colleges

Offices & Services

Policies & Governance


A-Z Index
Magnifying Glass Icon
Broadband Networking Lab
Broadband Networking Lab
Office of Research Undergraduate Research Students Vertically Integrated Projects Teams Broadband Networking Lab
Vertically Integrated Projects

Home
About VIP
KSU Teams
Students
Faculty & Staff
Office of Undergraduate Research
Office of Research
Goals
This project aims to explore new techniques for the design of efficient algorithms on energy-starved IoT cloud computing networks, and a new cloud network paradigm such as a consolidation of Low-Power Wide-Area Network (LPWAN) such as using Long Range Radio (LoRa) technology with edge cloud computing to support QoS both energy-starved IoT and general IoT data communications. LoRa is a low energy consumption, low bit rate, cost-effective, and license-free IoT, which has a significant long-range. LoRa can be combined with software-defined networking to create unified, adaptable, rapid-deployable networks. Therefore, these project solutions can apply to many high-impact situations where there is loss of telecommunication, for example natural disasters such as hurricanes and war zones where conventional telecommunication infrastructure is damaged. In these cases, low-cost, long-range, rapid deployable wireless communication systems are urgently needed.

Experience Gained
Conduct high-impact research to solve crucial telecommunication problems.
Develop soft, entrepreneurial, and networking skills.
Analyze engineering approaches, be able to integrate software, hardware, communication systems, and network infrastructures.
Develop proof-of-concept projects related to future telecommunications.
Majors and Interests Needed
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Information Technology
Software Engineering
Data Science
Mathematics
Physics
Engineering Technology
Instructional Technology & Innovation
Health and Human Services
Team Advisors
Ahyoung Lee, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Computer Science
Email: alee146@kennesaw.edu

Sumit Chakravarty, Ph.D.
Assistant Chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering
Email: schakra2@kennesaw.edu

Hoseon Lee, Ph.D.
Professor of Electrical Engineering
Email: hlee69@kennesaw.edu

Kennesaw State University Logo
Facebook Icon
X Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Instagram Icon
YouTube Icon
Contact Information

Kennesaw Campus
1000 Chastain Road
Kennesaw, GA 30144

Marietta Campus
1100 South Marietta Pkwy
Marietta, GA 30060

Phone
470-KSU-INFO
(470-578-4636)

Campus Maps
Parking
Media Resources
Campus

A-Z Index
Academic Calendar
Campus News
D2L Brightspace
University Information Technology Services
Related Links

Libraries
Housing
Financial Aid
Degrees, Majors & Programs
Registrar
Job Opportunities
Campus Security
Global Education
Sustainability
Accessibility
© 2026 Kennesaw State University. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Statement
Accreditation
Advisories
Report a Concern
Feedback
Open Records
Human Trafficking Notice
Text Only
This website uses cookies. Find out more in our Privacy Notice at https://www.kennesaw.edu/privacy-statement.php. For Data Privacy related Questions or Requests, please complete this form.

and her paper isDDPG CAD: Intelligent Channel Activity Detection
Scheduling in Massive IoT LoRaWAN
Jui Mhatre∗
, Ahyoung Lee†
, Hoseon Lee‡
, and Tu N. Nguyen∗
∗†Department of Computer Science, Kennesaw State University, Marietta GA 30060, USA.
‡Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Kennesaw State University, Marietta GA 30060, USA
Email: jmhatre1@students.kennesaw.edu∗
,{ahyoung.lee (Corresponding author)†
, hoseon.lee‡
, tu.nguyen∗}@kennesaw.edu
Abstract—Beyond 5G and future 6G aim to address rising
energy demands as the world becomes more interconnected.
LoRaWAN network is an energy-efficient IoT solution, but
frequent retransmissions can quickly deplete sensor batteries.
Efficient traffic management and collision avoidance are crucial.
Initially, LoRaWAN used ALOHA for multi-access, causing
increased network collisions. The recent innovation of Channel
Activity Detection (CAD) has emerged to tackle these issues.
CAD enhances multi-access by sensing channel activity before
transmission. Although an improvement, CAD is not foolproof.
Our paper introduces enhancements to CAD through the Deep
Deterministic Policy Gradient-based Algorithm (DDPG CAD).
To assess CAD functionality, we develop LoRaCAD, a dedicated
simulator. We also conduct a thorough comparative analysis of
scheduling strategies, considering energy efficiency, latency, and
packet delivery ratio.
Index Terms—LoRaWAN, deep deterministic policy gradient,
channel activity detection, energy efficient.
I. INTRODUCTION
5G and 6G networks aim to provide high-capacity, highspeed, ubiquitous, and green communication to improve
coverage and energy efficiency. Some applications, such as
smart agriculture, prioritize energy efficiency and extended
coverage range over high-speed connectivity, where lowenergy and long-range networks are crucial. LPWAN is a
low-power, wide-area coverage technology. LoRaWAN, a
major LPWAN tech, supports long-range and minimal energy
consumption. It uses the ALOHA multiple access technique,
leading to collisions and congestion. Duty cycle restrictions
allow devices to transmit for 1-10% of the time, causing
high latency. Massive IoT exacerbates these challenges due
to increased network traffic.
Efficient channel sensing techniques like Channel Activity
Detection (CAD) and Lightweight Carrier Sensing (LCS)
can help overcome communication challenges. An optimal
scheduling algorithm reduces collisions and selects transmission parameters for better spectrum usage and lower power
consumption. In LoRaWAN, scheduling involves selecting
transmission parameters that define signal characteristics.
To improve results, CAD and LCS can be combined with
scheduling strategies. A CAD-enabled simulator is needed to
investigate channel-sensing-based scheduling strategies. Our
study compared existing LoRa simulators as shown in Table
I. Based on the studies of various simulators we observed
• Channel Activity Detection (CAD): Existing simulators
did not support the CAD simulation.
• LoRa Gateway with energy module: Current simulators
cannot furnish gateway details, such as battery level, to
prevent battery exhaustion attacks [1].
• LoRa Gateway with load handling: The current simulators do not consider device scalability limitations.
• Integration of scheduling algorithms: Developing a simulator seamlessly incorporating reinforcement learningbased algorithms is essential, eliminating users’ need for
intricate network knowledge.
LoRaWAN uses an efficient channel sensing technique
called Channel Activity Detection (CAD) to reduce energy
consumption. However, CAD has limitations when operating
on busy channels, leading to delays and potential collisions.
A new method in [6] called LCS based on CAD has been
introduced to enhance network scalability and reduce energy
consumption. A CSMA-based multi-access technique is proposed in [7] to mitigate collisions for both short and long
messages, especially during periods of high traffic, thereby
lowering energy consumption. In [8], energy consumption
is impressively reduced by 177%, presenting a mathematical energy efficiency model in multi-gateway LoRa. The
model optimally allocates frequency channels, spread factors,
and transmission power. Based on our literature review,
limitations of existing simulators, and understanding of the
requirements in LoRaWAN scheduling strategies, we propose,
• We developed a LoRa Simulator based on Channel
Activity Detection (LoRaCAD) to assess the effectiveness of reinforcement learning (RL)-based scheduling
strategies with channel sensing.
• We designed a scheduling strategy based on RL,
specifically employing the Deep Deterministic Policy
Gradient Algorithm with Channel Activity Detection
(DDPG CAD), which is proposed to optimize the selection of transmission parameters.
• DDPG CAD also enhances the functioning of CAD by
predicting the number of CAD repetitions.
• We assessed the performance of our algorithm by comparing the outcomes with studies in Table II.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. We
give a network system model and formulate a research idea
in II. We submit the structure of the solution in section III
TABLE I: Comparative Study of Simulators
Features NS3 [2] FloRa [3] LoRaSim [4] LoRa-MAB [5] LoRaCAD
Language C++, Python C++ Python Python Python
Energy Model ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Adaptive Data Rate Support ✓ ✓ x x ✓
ACK Support ✓ ✓ x x x
Imperfect SF ✓ ✓ x ✓ ✓
Signal Capture Effect ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Device Class A A A A A
Multi-Gateway ✓ ✓ ✓ x x
Channel Activity Detection x x x x ✓
Gateway Load x x x x ✓
Machine Learning Algorithm Integration x x ✓ ✓ ✓
and give implementation details of the scheduling algorithm
DDPG CAD and simulator LoRaCAD, followed by evaluation results in IV and conclusion V.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
Fig. 1: Overview of LoRaWAN Architecture.
Our LoRaWAN network under consideration has N sensors, one Gateway, and one network server. It is a star
topology network with all sensors connecting to the Gateway,
which connects to the network server (Fig. 1). We focus our
scope of research on communication between sensors and the
LoRaWAN gateway. The US-based LoRaWAN has 72 uplink
and eight downlink channels, also known as central frequency
(CF), two bandwidths (BW), four coding rates (CR), 16
transmission powers (TP), and six spread factors (SF), [9]
which count to 55,296 transmission settings. These are still
limited settings in massive IoT if they transmit simultaneously. Moreover, LoRaWAN uses the ALOHA technique for
multi-access. Proper scheduling of transmission parameters is
required to optimize the network’s data rates, airtime, and energy consumption. Thus, optimizing transmission parameters
can improve LoRaWAN’s energy efficiency. Another aspect
is channel activity detection (CAD), which performs channel
sensing for a preamble to check channel idleness.
CAD is an energy-efficient way to transmit sensor data by
sensing channels before transmission. Before CAD operation,
SF and BW are selected, and CADMode is enabled and
inaccessible for 32
BW ms. Then for next 2
SF
BW ms actual sensing
takes place and results are processed in 2
SF ∗BW
1750e3 ms. The
end of CAD processing is denoted by CADDone interrupt
when we can check CADDetected interrupt for results about
channel idleness [10]. If CADDetected is true, if the channel
is busy, then the packet for which transmission was under
consideration is dequeued from the buffer and appended to
the end of the queue. If the CADDetected is false, then
transmission starts at an immediate moment. We observe a
few issues in this.
1) Collision for CADDetected = false: Fig. 2a shows
a scenario of CAD when two or more devices with the
same SF and BW perform cAD simultaneously on the same
channel. Both devices detect that the channel is idle using
CADDetection, start transmitting instantly, and end up in a
collision. Massive IoT aggravates this issue.
2) Waiting time increase for CADDetected = true: Fig 2b
shows a scenario when the channel is busy, and other devices
perform CADDetection on this channel, they have to wait for
transmission to be completed. Moreover, the packet trying to
transmit is enqueued in the buffer and made to wait till others
finish. This causes starvation for devices in busy networks.
Hence, we propose to design a new CAD strategy to
improve multi-access using a scheduling algorithm using RL.
Existing simulators (see Table I) lack CAD functionality
and gateway load management, essential features for evaluating CAD-based algorithms and scheduling strategies in
LoRaWAN networks.
III. PROPOSED SOLUTION
In this paper, we propose a twofold solution as discussed,
A. Scheduling Algorithm with Improved CAD: DDPG CAD
We have proposed a deep deterministic policy gradient RL
(DDPG) algorithm that intelligently optimizes the selection
of transmission parameters to avoid overlap and lower energy
consumption by avoiding collisions. The state includes the
location of devices, the data size they have to transmit, and
the gateway load limit. The action consists of transmission
parameters and CAD retries performed after the channel is
found busy. The reward factor is −1 ∗ energy consumption
since we aim to minimize the energy by maximizing the
rewards. The transmission parameters are responsible for
energy-efficient schedule generation. Input to the algorithm
is a set of all sensor join requests with their information,
such as locations or identifiers.
1) Solution to existing CAD issues: Two key issues are
identified and solved in Fig. 2. To address these challenges,
we introduce two enhancements to CAD using our algorithm:
The number of CAD repetition predictions and the introduction of randomized transmission delays. Fig. 3(a) illustrates
how the randomized timer introduces delays in CAD checks
and enriches the likelihood of successful transmission even
(a) Idle Channel. (b) Busy Channel.
Fig. 2: Issues with existing CAD in LoRaWAN: Devices start transmitting instantly after identifying the idle channel and
lead to collision (Fig. 2a). Delayed packet transmission if the channel is busy (Fig. 2b).
(a) Variation due to Randomized Timer. (b) Variation due to Number of CAD Repetitions.
Fig. 3: Solution to issues with existing CAD in LoRaWAN: Variation in Randomized Timer before CAD allows transmission
devices identify other devices ready to transmit even if number of CAD repetitions are same (Fig. 3a). If not the same, then
different CADs detect busy channels (Fig. 3b).
when the number of CAD repetitions remains the same.
In Fig. 3(b), we demonstrate the effectiveness of predicting
different numbers of CAD operations to prevent collisions. If
a randomized timer initiates CAD processes simultaneously,
unequal CAD checks ensure that devices with a higher
number (e.g., device 2) can avoid collisions. If the channel
is persistently busy, we limit the CAD operation to a defined
number of repetitions. After that, the packet is enqueued.
2) Scheduling transmission parameters: Transmission parameter selection affects energy consumption in LoRaWAN.
The SF defines a number of chips forming a symbol. This
increases the transmission duration and the time the power
amplifier continues to power the transmitter. BW specifies
the number of symbols transmitted in a given time for an
increase in BW, ToA, and energy consumption for the sensor
decreases. Higher values of CF increase ToA [11]. Similarly,
the coding range and transmission power can be scheduled
to obtain different signal quality and control energy.
B. CAD-based Simulator: LoRaCAD
LoRaCAD has two primary functions: enabling CAD functionality in sensors and facilitating gateway load management.
Three main elements are the - GW sensors and the environment. Within LoRaCAD, three-channel groups are available:
64 upstream channels (125KHz BW) and eight upstream and
eight downstream channels (500KHz BW). Devices utilize
these by selecting one channel as CF in transmission parameters. Other transmission parameters are scheduled according
to the required signal and traffic conditions. The Network
Server hosts the scheduling algorithm, offering the flexibility
to integrate various scheduling algorithms and conduct comparative analyses. The Gateway module defines a limit of the
device connections to the Gateway to manage the gateway
load. CAD operations are managed within the transmission
module using the parameter that allows the specification
of the maximum number of CAD operations. LoRaCAD
operates as a multithreaded simulator, each device functioning
as an individual thread. When the thread starts executing,
it requests a connection to the gateway. The connection is
accepted if the gateway limit is not reached. The devices
also notify the gateway of their locations. Gateway combines
information about all devices and sends it to a network server
to schedule the transmission parameters for all these devices.
The transmission parameters are notified to devices using
MAC commands. The device uses parameters for the packet
that it wants to transmit. We show the method of transmission
TABLE II: State of the art Algorithms
Algorithm Performance Parameter
ADR MAX [12] Energy and PDR
ADR AVG [13] Energy and PDR
NO ADR [13] Energy and PDR
ADR Lite [14] Energy and PDR
LP-MAB [15] Energy and PDR
LoRa ADR+ [13] Energy and PDR
LoRa ADR++ [16] Energy and PDR
ASA [17] Latency
DPST [17] Latency and Energy
in Fig. 3. Any new scheduling strategy to be tested is stored
on the network server and is referenced using the properties
section.
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
We evaluate the DDPG CAD algorithm on LoRaCAD and
compare results with algorithms mentioned in Table II. We
analyze average energy consumption per device, packet delivery ratio (PDR), and average latency. We set the environment
using parameters as per the Table III. We evaluate algorithms
mentioned in urban and suburban areas. The difference lies
in network parameters altering the network traffic, path loss,
distance from gateways, and range [13].
A. Discussion on the Simulation Results
Our evaluation is presented in two stages. First, we evaluate
the performance of LoRaCAD with the existing simulator,
LoRaSim. Second, we compare the existing algorithms with
our DDPG CAD on LoRaCAD. This shows the performance
improvement of DDPG CAD in the LoRa environment.
1) Comparison of LoRaCAD with LoRaSim: We assessed
the performance of the LoRa-RL scheduling algorithm, as
detailed in [18], on both LoRaSim and LoRaCAD platforms. Through these comparative evaluations, we aim to
show the importance of having a CAD-enabled simulator
to get a broader and more accurate picture of the network.
It also helps us understand how channel sensing improves
performance. Additionally, it helps evaluate ML/RL models
with CAD-related predictions before emulating or deploying
them in the network. LoRaSim uses packet retransmissions
to handle losses, collisions, and lack of acknowledgment. LoRaCAD, on the other hand, employs carrier sensing through
CAD to reduce collisions and retransmissions, leading to
lower energy consumption. The disparity in energy consumption is evident in Fig. 4a due to the significantly lower energy
expenditure in CAD operations compared to retransmissions.
LoRaSim discards packets after a specified number of retransmissions, while LoRaCAD detects channel activity before
transmission and initiates a CAD retry after a shorter backoff
time. Our RL model predicts a maximum number of CAD
retries. The channel is sensed before each retransmission until
the packet is transmitted successfully or the retransmission
limit is exhausted, increasing the probability of success.
Hence, we observe in Fig. 4b that we gain a increase in
PDR for LoRaCAD. We observe that increase in devices also
TABLE III: Simulation parameters.
Parameter Value
Bit Rate Reference in [9]
Number of Device 1,000
Transmission Power Reference in [9]
Gateway load Limit 120 connections
Signal to Noise Ratio Reference in [19]
Reference Distance 40.0
path loss exponent 2.08
mean path-loss at d0 127.41
CAD Backoff Timer 2ms
Network Area (Min)(X0, Y0) (0,0)
Network Area (Max)(XM, YM) (1,000,1,000)
Gateway Location (LGX, LGY ) (500,500)
increases the latency in Fig. 4c. LoRaCAD latency improves
because CAD is faster than retransmission.
2) Comparison of DDPG CAD with existing scheduling
strategies: We evaluate DDPG CAD using urban and suburban scenarios with parameters in [13]. The network is denser
in urban environments than in rural areas, causing higher
collision probabilities. This emphasizes the significance of
channel sensing-based scheduling. Conversely, in rural environments, the longer distances cause signal attenuation
and loss. This necessitates an increased transmission power.
Fig. 5a, Fig. 5b compares PDR (%) for various state-ofthe-art algorithms to our proposed algorithm. CAD retries
until an idle channel is found, or max retries are exhausted
when the channel is busy. This process repeats before every
retransmission. This reduces the possibility of collision and
packet loss, increasing the PDR. Thus, our algorithm is
a better solution for applications where data accuracy and
reliable transmission are more critical.
Fig. 5c and Fig. 5d evaluate energy consumption for
various algorithms to our proposed DDPG CAD algorithm.
The ADR++ consumes the lowest energy of all of them. More
energy is consumed for channel sensing and retrying, which is
less so in ADR-based algorithms. But DDPG CAD consumes
lower energy as compared to other existing algorithms. This
makes our algorithm a better choice in unreliable networks
to gain energy efficiency.
V. CONCLUSION
We have identified and addressed two pivotal challenges to
improve the energy efficiency of sensors in a star topology for
extensive IoT applications. The first is collisions in dense networks, while the second involves optimizing gateway load. To
tackle these, we propose an innovative scheduling algorithm
called the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient Algorithm with
Channel Activity Detection functionality (DDPG CAD). This
algorithm enhances Channel Activity Detection (CAD) by
resolving existing CAD-related problems. We have developed
LoRaCAD, a specialized simulator crafted to evaluate the
performance of our energy-optimized scheduling algorithm.
We compare energy and PDR metrics with state-of-the-art
solutions in urban and rural environments. Our observations
reveal a remarkable PDR of 87%, represent a substantial
6% advancement over the LoRa ADR++.

but her otehr paper are 

MDPI Open Access Journals
Journals Topics Information Author Services Initiatives About
Sign In / Sign Up Submit
 
Search for Articles:
Title / Keyword
Author / Affiliation / Email
Advanced
 
Journals  Engineering Proceedings  Volume 89  Issue 1  10.3390/engproc2025089033 
engproc-logo
Submit to this Journal
Article Menu
Academic Editors
	Teen-Hang Meen
	Chun-Yen Chang
	Cheng-Fu Yang
Related Info Link
More by Authors Links
Article Views1711
Citations4
Table of Contents
Abstract
Introduction
Related Works
Methodology
Result and Discussion
Conclusions
Author Contributions
Funding
Institutional Review Board Statement
Informed Consent Statement
Data Availability Statement
Conflicts of Interest
References
share
Share
announcement
Help
format_quote
Cite
question_answer
Discuss in SciProfiles
first_pageDownload PDFsettingsOrder Article Reprints
Open AccessProceeding Paper
Enhancing Fabric Detection and Classification Using YOLOv5 Models †
by Makara Mao 1ORCID,Jun Ma 1ORCID,Ahyoung Lee 2ORCID andMin Hong 3,*ORCID
1
Department of Software Convergence, Soonchunhyang University, Asan-si 31538, Republic of Korea
2
Department of Computer Science, Kennesaw State University, Marietta, GA 30060, USA
3
Department of Computer Software Engineering, Soonchunhyang University, Asan-si 31538, Republic of Korea
*
Author to whom correspondence should be addressed.
†
Presented at the 2024 IEEE 7th International Conference on Knowledge Innovation and Invention, Nagoya, Japan, 16–18 August 2024.
Eng. Proc. 2025, 89(1), 33; https://doi.org/10.3390/engproc2025089033
Published: 3 March 2025
(This article belongs to the Proceedings of 2024 IEEE 7th International Conference on Knowledge Innovation and Invention)
Downloadkeyboard_arrow_down Browse Figures Versions Notes
Abstract
The YOLO series is widely recognized for its efficiency in the real-time detection of objects within images and videos. Accurately identifying and classifying fabric types in the textile industry is vital to ensuring quality, managing supply, and increasing customer satisfaction. We developed a method for fabric type classification and object detection using the YOLOv5 architecture. The model was trained on a diverse dataset containing images of different fabrics, including cotton, hanbok, dyed cotton yarn, and a plain cotton blend. We conducted a dataset preparation process, including data collection, annotation, and training procedures for data augmentation to improve model generalization. The model’s performance was evaluated using precision, recall, and F1-score. The developed model detected and classified fabrics with an accuracy of 81.08%. YOLOv5s allowed a faster performance than other models. The model can be used for automated quality control, inventory tracking, and retail analytics. The deep learning-based object detection method with YOLOv5 addresses challenges related to fabric classification, improving the abilities and productivity of manufacturing and operations.
Keywords: YOLOv5; fabric classification; object detection; deep learning
1. Introduction
Deep learning has improved rapidly recently. Image recognition and video classification are widely used within industry to judge the ripeness of fruits and vegetables [1]. Object detection methods have attracted much attention, as exemplified by the YOLO algorithm. The advent of YOLO has notably enhanced detection speeds, expanding the operation of deep learning into various domains.
In online shopping applications, platforms such as Amazon, eBay, and Taobao have seamlessly integrated YOLO for diverse functionalities [2]. In agriculture, YOLO is extensively applied to environmental monitoring, crop health assessment, and pest detection. In online shopping applications, image recognition is used in clothing design, coordinating accessories, categorizing items, and conducting analyses [3]. With the rapid growth of e-commerce, online shopping has provided consumers with convenience and cheaper products. In the apparel industry, engaging customers depends on visual elements such as color, style, and other features, highlighting the need for accurate image representation [4].
For online stores, showcasing garments’ various color and style variations as well as many try-on pictures and accessory options is paramount. This facilitates a straightforward selection aligned with customers’ preferences and enhances the shopping experience [5]. The applications of AI technologies such as YOLO extend beyond online shopping to clothing classification and detection, underscoring their versatility and potential in the industry [6]. Leveraging YOLO’s real-time processing capabilities and high accuracy in object detection, online retailers can streamline the browsing experience, offer accurate product recommendations, and elevate customer satisfaction. Moreover, this integration empowers online retailers to optimize inventory management to enhance the shopping experience.
2. Related Works
Object detection and image classification have been advanced thanks to deep learning techniques. In particular, the YOLO models have garnered considerable attention due to their ability to execute object detection. Video classification using deep learning techniques is used to simulate clothing for customers [7]. Song et al. [8] proposed evolved YOLOv5-based object detection to address inaccurate detection. The enhanced model achieved a better object detection performance using network pruning and parameter optimization [8]. The eye-in-hand measurement method showed increased precision, recall, mean average precision (mAP) value, and F1 score in contrast with the original YOLOv5 models [8]. Li et al. [9] enhanced object detection and addressed illegal immigration, industrial scenarios, natural disasters, and locating missing individuals or items utilizing photography with an F11 4K PRO drone and the VisDrone dataset.
Aduen et al. [10] enhanced the YOLOv5 object detection of smaller objects, particularly in autonomous racing, proposing a modified YOLO-Z model. The model’s mAP was enhanced by 6.9% for fewer objects at an intersection over union of 50% in object detection and its speed increased by 3 ms compared with the original YOLOv5. Hang et al. [11] proposed YOLOv5 for object detection in satellite images by introducing fusion layers and predicting heads. They used swin transformer prediction heads (SPHs) to reduce calculation intricacy and integrate normalization-based attention modules (NAMs) to improve attention performance. Evaluated on the NWPU-VHR10 and DOTA datasets, the modified model SPH-YOLOv5 outperformed the original YOLOv5 with an increase of 0.071 in mAP. Additionally, most YOLO versions enhance object detection based on machine learning.
3. Methodology
YOLOv5 is an advanced deep-learning technique that consists of an input, backbone, neck, and head. Among its variants, YOLOv5s is notable for its compact size, making it ideal for edge artificial intelligence (AI) and deployment on microcontroller units (MCUs). Deep learning models rely on GPU-powered systems for efficient computations. We used an open-source Jupyter Notebook (7.2.2) for model training and testing. Figure 1 shows the steps used for setup, configuration, and running process applications to create a new YOLO layer. Users need to confirm the graphics processing unit (GPU) and compute the unified device architecture (CUDA) settings before installing YOLO algorithms. Finally, the selected YOLO algorithm was trained and tested by using pre-defined weights.
Engproc 89 00033 g001
Figure 1. Implementation process for YOLOv5 model.
3.1. YOLO Algorithms
YOLO is a single-stage object detection algorithm renowned for its efficiency and effectiveness. Unlike traditional two-stage methods, YOLO formulates object detection as a regression problem. It predicts bounding boxes and class probabilities from entire images in a single evaluation, offering real-time inference capabilities. This approach enables YOLO to achieve a high accuracy while maintaining an impressive speed, making it well-suited for various applications such as autonomous vehicles, surveillance systems, and robotics. YOLO streamlines the object detection process by simultaneously handling localization and classification and provides a robust and efficient solution for computer vision tasks.
The YOLO series has evolved through Darknet powering versions 1 to 4, while YOLOv5 is built on PyTorch (2.5.1+cu121). YOLOv1, inspired by GoogLeNet, treated object detection as a regression task. YOLOv2 improved accuracy and speed by adopting the Darknet-19 framework, though challenges remained in detecting small objects. To address this, YOLOv3 introduced a feature fusion module and expanded its output to three dimensions, enhancing performance with smaller objects. Based on such advancements, YOLOv4 refined its detection accuracy. YOLOv5, the latest version, allows for more compact models.
The YOLO architecture is structured using the backbone, neck, and head. Figure 2 highlights the main differences among the various versions of YOLO. In YOLOv5, the FOCUS function enhances the processing speed by slicing and rearranging the input image. Spatial pyramid pooling (SPP) reduces image distortion in measurements, color, or culture. It accelerates the generation of candidate boxes while decreasing computational overheads.
Engproc 89 00033 g002
Figure 2. Architecture and processes of YOLOv5.
3.2. Dataset
Image datasets were collected using a camera, capturing data from the fabric category machine shown in Figure 3. The dataset comprised more than 5000 images and was categorized into five groups: plain cotton fabric, the hanbok fabric nobang, dyed cotton yarn, hanbok fabric, and a plain cotton blend fabric.
Engproc 89 00033 g003
Figure 3. Images of samples of each category of fabric.
The dataset was split into training, validation, and testing sets. The training set was used to train the model, while the testing dataset was used for fine-tuning parameters and selecting the best model. Table 1 presents the distribution of samples in each category used in this study.
Table 1. Fabric dataset in this study.

3.3. Image Labeling
LabelImg is an annotation tool developed in Python (3.12.4) that applies PyQt for its graphical interface annotations. It stores XML files in the PASCAL VOC format. Movere is also used in the YOLO and CreateML formats. The tool determines the object’s area and class in labeling and selects an appropriate layout compatible with YOLO. This information includes the class, X, and Y coordinates and the distance and confines of objects Figure 4.
Engproc 89 00033 g004
Figure 4. YOLOv5 labeling.
4. Result and Discussion
We used a Windows 10 system with an AMD Ryzen 9 5900X processor running at 3.70 GHz, 128 GB of RAM, and an NVIDIA GeForce RTX. PyTorch, TensorFlow, and other supporting libraries were used to develop the YOLOv5 with a backbone, neck, and head. In object detection, the spatial locations of objects are represented by encircling boxes. YOLO employs anchor boxes of different sizes and shapes to manage overlapping objects within images. Each anchor box is evaluated to determine which object’s encircling box has the highest overlapping-to-non-overlapping ratio. In training, the expected encircling boxes are more continuous than the ground-truth labels, enhancing the detection performance where bounding boxes are color-coded by class, as shown in Table 2 and the results in Figure 5.
Engproc 89 00033 g005
Figure 5. Results from testing the types of fabrics.
Table 2. Performance obtained for 5 and 100 epochs. Time spent by CPU and GPU.

5. Conclusions
We used the lightweight YOLOv5 algorithm for clothing recognition in various conditions and weight constraints. YOLOv5s, a single-stage object detection approach, enhances both the detection speed and size of the compact model. The model was developed and tested using the Jupyter Notebook in an open-source integrated development environment. Image samples were taken using the LUMIX GH6 camera. Steps for building an efficient and cost-effective computing setup were developed. The experimental results highlighted the benefits of YOLOv5s regarding mAP, CPU and GPU operation times, and efficiency.

and i want to mention like agnet based self healing capability or the reinforcement learning
like the Abstract of someone else paper is , not this professor AHYOUNG LEE paper 
The Internet of Things (IoT) is revolutionizing communication by connecting everyday objects to the Internet, enabling data exchange and automation. Low-Power Wide-Area networks (LPWANs) provide a wireless communication solution optimized for long-range, low-power IoT devices. LoRa is a prominent LPWAN technology; its ability to provide long-range, low-power wireless connectivity makes it ideal for IoT applications that cover large areas or where battery life is critical. Despite its advantages, LoRa uses a random access mode, which makes it susceptible to increased collisions as the network expands. In addition, the scalability of LoRa is affected by the distribution of its transmission parameters. This paper introduces a Reinforcement Learning-based Time-Slotted (RL-TS) LoRa protocol that incorporates a mechanism for distributing transmission parameters. It leverages a reinforcement learning algorithm, enabling nodes to autonomously select their time slots, thereby optimizing the allocation of transmission parameters and TDMA slots. To evaluate the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct simulations to assess the convergence speed of the reinforcement learning algorithm, as well as its impact on throughput and packet delivery ratio (PDR). The results demonstrate significant improvements, with PDR increasing from 0.45–0.85 in LoRa to 0.88–0.97 in RL-TS, and throughput rising from 80–150 packets to 156–172 packets. Additionally, RL-TS achieves 82% reduction in collisions compared to LoRa, highlighting its effectiveness in enhancing network performance. Moreover, a detailed comparison with conventional LoRa and other existing protocols is provided, highlighting the advantages of the proposed method.

Keywords: LoRa, Q-learning, LPWAN, scalability, IoT
and i also want to mention my re-agent to kind of align my resreach direction with her

and his Labs


The mDOT Center
Transforming health and wellness via temporally-precise mHealth interventions
side-area-image-1side-area-image-2side-area-image-3side-area-image-4side-area-image-5side-area-image-6
mDOT@MD2K.org
901.678.1526
Posts by mDOT_Center

 logodark logolight logo 
Home
Research
Training
Resources
News & Events
About
  
 logodark logolight logo 
Home
Research
Training
Resources
News & Events
About
  
About
mDOT Center > About
// About Us
Overview
The mHealth Center for Discovery, Optimization & Translation of Temporally-Precise Interventions (the mDOT Center) provides the methods, tools, and infrastructure for researchers to discover, optimize and deploy temporally-precise mHealth interventions to address growing public health problems.

Organized around three Technology Research & Development (TR&D) projects, the mDOT Center represents a unique national resource that is developing multiple methodological and technological innovations. Each TR&D is creating technological resources for the biological community that include easily deployable wearables, apps for wearables and smartphones, and a companion mHealth cloud system, all of which are open-source.
Our Vision
Innovation
The Team

Health Needs
One of the biggest drivers of the nation’s rising healthcare spending is providing care for patients with chronic diseases, many of which are linked to health behaviors such as poor diet, lack of exercise, and smoking. A key strategy for making self-care and preventive measures more achievable has been the integration of passive monitoring into everyday life via mobile sensors and providing personalized information and guidance to patients.

mHealth Solutions
mDOT Center tools transform the ability of researchers to leverage the full range of available sensors and mobile technologies, allowing them to deliver dynamically personalized and temporally-precise mHealth interventions to individuals. These interventions can precipitate a much-needed transformation by enabling patients to initiate and sustain the lifestyle choices necessary to prevent or manage the burden of chronic health conditions.

// Technological Resources for the Biological Community
Technology Research & Development
TR&D1
DISCOVERY
The mDOT Center develops methods of identifying the ideal moments when health risks are elevated yet mitigatable. Our technologies have a significant potential to advance the fundamental understanding of health and behavior by supporting the analysis of complex, longitudinal, mHealth data.

TR&D2
OPTIMIZATION
To maximize the chances of success, mobile health intervention content is optimized to address the key drivers of current risk. The mDOT Center addresses these challenges by developing advanced reinforcement learning methods so that they can be applied to the case of mHealth interventions.

TR&D3
TRANSLATION
The mDOT Center resources make remote care possible for patients who have traditionally required close involvement of clinicians, marking a major transformation in care delivery. Our deliverables enable much greater personalization of mHealth interventions by expanding access to emerging biomarkers.

// Positioned to Transform Healthcare
Strategic Alignment
Vision
Innovation & Impact
Organizational Structure
We envision a powerful new paradigm for maintaining health and managing the growing burden of chronic diseases, specifically, temporally-precise mHealth interventions that are optimized to the moment-to-moment biopsychosocial-environmental context of each individual to directly manage, treat, and prevent medical conditions. The long-term goal of this center is to establish a national technological resource for enabling optimal health care (and self-care) for each individual by leveraging noisy but ubiquitous measures of health, behaviors, surrounding contexts, and responses to treatments and interventions via mHealth biomarkers.

To illustrate our vision, consider a high-need patient, Sam, who has just been discharged from the hospital after treatment (fitted with a prosthetic heart valve) for a new onset of heart failure. Under a currently typical care scenario, Sam receives prescription medication and has one week and one month follow up visits scheduled. To prevent recurrence, he is recommended to reduce sedentary behavior, improve his diet, quit smoking, and brush twice daily to reduce his risk of heart valve infection. Sam is motivated and works on each of these recommendations initially. But, in the absence of any active ongoing support, he gradually falls back to his prehospitalization lifestyle and ends up in the hospital again with a second heart failure event.

It does not have to be that way. mDOT Center technologies enable fundamentally new behavioral intervention approaches to substantially increase the likelihood of success of maintaining a healthier lifestyle. The mDOT Center works with multiple collaborative projects to enable temporally-precise mHealth interventions that can be applied to patients like Sam. At the time of discharge, Sam can be provided with sensors that can provide regular measurements of cardiovascular states remotely. Sam’s clinicians can use these measures to adjust his medications accordingly, with confidence that missing data and uncertainty are robustly handled. Second, Sam can be provided with a temporally-precise physical activity intervention app (on his smartphone and wearable device) that gives him personalized recommendations on how to improve physical activity optimized to his current life circumstances and preferences. Third, Sam can be provided with a temporally-precise intervention to stay abstinent from smoking. Finally, Sam can be provided with personalized interventions to control overeating and to develop a habit of brushing and flossing twice daily.

None of these interventions will keep Sam out of the hospital if Sam does not maintain these new behaviors. mDOT Center technologies will initially assist Sam with navigating the challenges of multiple behavior change by coordinating among the suite of interventions that he has been provided with. mDOT Center technologies will keep Sam engaged for the long run by making sure that intervention apps behave sensibly in the absence of needed inputs when Sam forgets to charge or carry his personal devices; and by adapting intervention intensity as his commitment for each behavior ebbs and flows over time and his life circumstances evolve and change. Finally, mDOT Center technologies ensure that Sam doesn’t need to worry about risks to his privacy as a result of engaging with mHealth interventions. In summary, health behaviors are powerful drivers of health states, often with effects on par with or exceeding the effect of pharmaceuticals. The mDOT Center will harness sensors and machine learning to support patients like Sam to become engaged, effective, long-term partners in their own disease prevention and management.
Collaborating Institutions
uiuc
logo 3 3
osu bw
harvard bw
ucla
UOFMBWLOGO
mdotLogoFadeSmall
The mDOT Center
FedEx Institute of Technology
365 Innovation Drive, Suite 335
Memphis, TN 38152

info@mDOTCenter.org


 

 

 

 

 

Become a collaborative or service project.

Join us in developing the tools and technologies to transform healthcare.

Partner with us.
mHealth Newsletter

Email Address



The mHealth Center for Discovery, Optimization & Translation of Temporally-Precise Interventions is supported by the National Institutes

of Health’s National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering through its Biomedical Technology Resource Centers Program.

© mDOT Center/MD2K @ University of Memphis.  All rights reserved.


and 
HomeAboutProjectsStudiesTraining
PREV
NEXT


mHealthHUB
A Virtual Collaboratory for Technologists, Researchers and Clinicians to Connect, Learn, Share, and Innovate on mHealth Tools to Transform Healthcare

Learn More
About
Projects
Studies
Training
mHealthHUB
DEPLOYMENTS

2
8
Studies
2
,
2
5
4
Participants
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
Person-Days of Data
5
Trillion Data Points
Active Projects
Media Image
mDOT Center
The mHealth Center for Discovery, Optimization & Translation of Temporally-Precise Interventions provides the methods, tools, and infrastructure for researchers to discover, optimize and deploy temporally-precise mHealth interventions to address growing public health problems.

Media Image
mProv
Provenance-based data analytics cyberinfrastructure for high-frequency mobile sensor data gives mHealth researchers the means to manage metadata for streaming sensor data.

Media Image
mGuard
mGuard leverages Named Data Networking (NDN) to produce the naming scheme and trust model for typical mHealth research data, develop innovative mechanisms for the specification and automated enforcement of sophisticated access control policies, and improve NDN’s pub-sub API to support a broader range of applications.

Completed Projects
Media Image
MD2K/BD2K
MD2K is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Big Data to Knowledge (BD2K) initiative, designed to support advances in research, policy, and training that are needed for the effective use of Big Data in biomedical research. MD2K develops and deploys cutting edge approaches, methods, software, tools, and other resources that enables biomedical researchers to use Big Data to advance human health.

Media Image
mPerf
mPerf uses mobile sensors to support productivity and employee well-being. It is an an open-source software platform that allows researchers to transform high-frequency mobile sensor data into biomarkers. mPerf uses this platform to better understand performance and support individual well-being.

Media Image
mContain
mContain is a free mobile app to help track social distancing during a virus outbreak. It uses smartphone technology to detect proximity encounters (within 6 feet for several minutes) with other app users, displays the number of daily proximity encounters and crowding, and can notify other users about possible exposures to COVID-19 individuals.

Media Image
Open mHealth
The goal of this project is the development, test and validation, repository and dissemination of a software infrastructure that addresses data FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable) using data and metadata standards.

Media Image
mResearch
The goal of the mResearch project is to make necessary enhancements to the MD2K infrastructure so it becomes a true community resource that computing researchers from across the country and around the world can easily use to conduct reproducible and extensible research on any aspect of the collection and analysis of high-frequency mobile sensor data.

Media Image
Novel use of mHealth Data
MD2K is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Big Data to Knowledge (BD2K) initiative, designed to support advances in research, policy, and training that are needed for the effective use of Big Data in biomedical research. MD2K develops and deploys cutting edge approaches, methods, software, tools, and other resources that enables biomedical researchers to use Big Data to advance human health.

Media Image
Context-Awareness & Personalization
The goals of this project are to adapt computational models for detecting stress, craving, smoking, eating and geoexposures from mobile sensor data by incorporating modeling advances; determine timing for intervention and adaptation of content based on detection of the above listed biomarkers; and to facilitate intervention data collection for user students.

Media Image
EasySense
The collaborative research project developed and evaluated a mobile sensor called EasySense that can provide continuous physiological monitoring without skin contact in the field environments using radio frequency (RF) probes.

Media Image
More Projects
Click to view the full list of active and completed MD2K projects.

Reach out to us.
MD2K Center of Excellence

FedEx Institute of Technology, Suite 335

365 Innovation Drive, Memphis, TN 38152

info@md2k.org901-678-1526
About us
Advancing biomedical discovery and improving health through mobile sensor Big Data

The MD2K Team aims to lay the scientific foundations for turning the wealth of mobile sensor data available through new and rapidly evolving wearable sensors into reliable and actionable health information, and contribute to the vision of predictive, preventive, personalized, participatory, and precision (P5) medicine.

Copyright © 2022 MD2K. MD2K was established by the National Institutes of Health Big Data to Knowledge Initiative (Grant #1U54EB020404)

