Skip to content
Give
MyCGU
Apply Now
Claremont Graduate University logo
Life at CGU

Academics
Admissions

Resources

Center for Information Systems & Technology
About
Programs
Faculty
Research
Careers
FAQ
Home  ›  Center for Information Systems & Te...  ›  Faculty  ›  Hengwei Zhang
Hengwei Zhang
Assistant Professor of Information Systems & Technology
Hengwei Zhang
Email
hengwei.zhang2@cgu.edu
Phone
909-621-8000
Degrees
PhD, Center for Information System and Technology, Claremont Graduate University
MS, Center for Information System and Technology, Claremont Graduate University
MBA, Drucker Business School, Claremont Graduate University
BA, Economics & Law (Dual Degree), Beijing Technology and Business University, Beijing, China
Research Interests
Natural Language Processing Data Management and Data Visualization Machine Learning
Hengwei Zhang is an accomplished data scientist, educator, and researcher with expertise in a variety of fields, including data science, health informatics, IT management, cybersecurity, and business analytics. She earned her PhD in Information Systems and Technology from the Center for Information Systems and Technology at Claremont Graduate University, where her dissertation on the factors promoting team effectiveness in creating international technology standards earned her recognition as a valuable scholar.

Zhang has published numerous research papers in prestigious journals and her research interests include data science, health informatics, machine learning, and AI. She is currently working on projects focused on social determinants of health and the digitalization of early-stage AD diagnosis tools.

As an Assistant Professor at the University of Tampa, Zhang teaches a variety of computer information systems topics and is dedicated to curriculum development and participating in department, school, and university meetings and committees. She has also worked with the Inland Empire Health Plan (IEHP) as a pre-doctoral research fellow, where she developed predictive models for population health risk stratification.

Zhang’s technical knowledge includes programming languages such as R, Python, C++, and MATLAB, databases and query languages such as Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft SQL Server, and data visualization tools such as PowerBI and Tableau. Her passion for data science, combined with her extensive education and professional experience, makes her a valuable contributor to the field of health informatics and data science.

Selected Works
Classes
Zhang, H., Li, Y., & McConnell, W. (2021). Predicting Potential Palliative Care Beneficiaries for Health Plans: A Generalized Machine Learning Pipeline. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 103922.

Alismail, S., & Zhang, H. (2020). Exploring and Understanding Participants’ Perceptions of Facial Emoji Likert Scales in Online Surveys: A Qualitative Study. ACM Transactions on Social Computing, 3(2), 1-12.

Zhang, H., & Li, Y., (2019, Oct). Continuous Delivery Predictive Modeling Pipelines for Population Health Risk Stratification – Cases from a Regional Health Care Plan. Research Presented at the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Science (INFORMS), Seattle, WA.

Bechor, T., Zhang, H., & Cruz, L. (2018, March). Holistic Understanding of Challenges with Autonomous Vehicles. In Proceedings of the 9th International Multi-Conference on Complexity, Informatics and Cybernetics, Orlando, FL.

Alismail, S., & Zhang, H. (2018, January). The Use of Emoji in Electronic User Experience Questionnaire: An Exploratory Case Study. In Proceedings of the 51st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HCISS).

Alismail, S., Zhang, H., & Chatterjee, S. (2017, May). A Framework for Identifying Design Science Research Objectives for Building and Evaluating IT Artifacts. In International Conference on Design Science Research in Information Systems (pp. 218-230) (DSR).Springer, Cham.​​​​​​​

Bechor, T., Tomerlin, S., Zhang, H., & Skariah, L., (2016). Sony Picture Entertainment Breach: The Hack of the Century. The Case Center, reference no. 916-0027-1.

About
Programs
Faculty
Research
News
Events
150 E. 10th Street
Claremont, CA 91711
909-621-8000
Visit Campus
A Member of The Claremont Colleges
Contact Us
About CGU
Employment Opportunities
Privacy Policy
Civil Rights / Title IX
Advancing Equity at CGU
Website Accessibility
CGU Referral Program
Giving
Academics
Safety
Campus Map
Newsroom
Strategic Plan
100.cgu.edu
Follow

Current Weather
  64°F | 18°C©2026 Claremont Graduate University
  and papers
  