The University of Memphis uses cookies to enhance your website experience. For more information, visit our Cookie Policy. By continuing to use this site, you consent to our use of cookies. More information >

I Agree
Skip to Main ContentSkip to Footer
University of Memphis Logo
Apply
Visit
Events
Athletics
News
Give
umMail
MyMemphis

Search
Search

Search
Admissions & Aid
Academics
Campus Life
About Us
Other Campuses
Contact Us
Computer Science
About
News and Events
Future Students
Current Students
Research
People
Outreach
Giving
Home
Computer Science
People
Santosh Kumar
People

Up
Full-Time Faculty
Affiliate Faculty
Part-Time Instructors
Staff
Department Advisory Board
Retired Faculty
Alumni
Take Action

Career Paths
Degree Programs
Courses
Contact Us
Santosh Kumar
Santosh Kumar
Santosh Kumar
Director, NIH mDOT Center, Director, MD2K Center of Excellence, and Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence Professor in Computer Science
901.678.2487
Dunn Hall 319/FIT 303G2
Santosh.Kumar@memphis.edu
Highest Degree
PhD, Computer Science, The Ohio State University, 2006

Research Interests
Artificial intelligence (AI) for wearables, mobile sensor big data, sensor-guided behavioral interventions on wearables, behavioral privacy, mobile health (mHealth)

Teaching Interests
Wireless sensor networks, wireless networks, network design and performance analysis, operations research

Personal Website
https://mdotcenter.org/santosh/

Google Scholar
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=f0i_WNoAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao

Biography
Dr. Santosh Kumar joined the Department in Fall 2006 after completing his PhD at The Ohio State University, where his dissertation was selected for the Presidential Fellowship award. In 2010, he was selected as one of America's ten most brilliant scientists under the age of 38 (called the "Brilliant Ten") by Popular Science magazine, becoming the first person in the Mid-South region to receive this honor. At the University of Memphis, he received an Early Career Research Award in 2008, the Faudree Professorship in 2011, and Distinguished Research Award in 2013. In 2015, he was promoted to full professor and named Tennessee’s first chair of excellence in Computer Science.

Dr. Kumar’s research focusses on mobile health (or mHealth). He and his students have developed computational models to infer human health and behavior such as stress, conversation, smoking, craving, brushing, flossing, and cocaine use from wearable sensor data. Dr. Kumar's research works appear in highly-selective publication venues in computer science such as ACM UbiComp, ACM CHI, ACM MobiCom, ACM SenSys, ACM IPSN, ICML, IEEE INFOCOM, and several ACM and IEEE Transactions journals. His publications are widely cited, at an average of 70 citations per article.

Dr. Kumar leads several large multidisciplinary projects in mHealth funded by both National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF). He currently leads ten federally-funded grants worth over $18 million. It includes multiple R01’s from NIH and a national Center of Excellence on Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) funded by the Big Data-to-Knowledge (BD2K) initiative from NIH that involves over 20 scientists in computing, engineering, behavioral science, and medicine from 12 universities. This is complemented by a $4 million NSF grant from its data cyberinfrastructure program.

As a leading expert on mobile health, Dr. Kumar is frequently invited to chair national meetings on mobile health and speak at national and international meetings in both computing and health. In 2013, he was invited to speak at the White House on the future of biosensors. In 2015, he was invited by NSF to speak about his career to aspiring investigators in smart health as a role model scientist.

The University of Memphis Logo
3720 Alumni Ave, Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: (901) 678-2000
Resources
Academic Calendars
Canvas
Campus Maps
ITS Support
Police Services
Info
Accreditation
Alumni
Directory
Equal Opportunity
Jobs
Follow UofM
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Copyright © 2025 The University of Memphis
Privacy Policy
Important Notice
Web Accessibility Assistance