University of Colorado Colorado Springs
Report It
Give Today
Apply Now
Dr. Yanyan Zhuang
College of Engineering and Applied Science

Search UCCS
Photo of Dr. Yanyan Zhuang
Yanyan Zhuang, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
Email: yzhuang@uccs.edu

Phone: 719-255-3062

Address:  UCCS Cybersecurity Building, 3650 N Nevada Ave, Colorado Springs, CO 80907

Office: Cybersecurity Building, A-120I

About Dr. Yanyan Zhuang
Welcome to my page. I am currently an Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science at the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs (UCCS). I joined UCCS in 2016.

I have been selected as the Networking Networking Women (N2Women) Advocate for advancing anti-harassment policy set by the ACM.

I am a TPC member of Tridentcom’15.

Find me on Google Scholar Citations or DBLP.

“Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.”
and here conference paper is
Poster Abstract: Operational Similarity in IoT Malware
Development Life Cycle
Minhajul Alam Rahat
University of Colorado Colorado Springs, CO, USA
mrahat@uccs.edu
Vijay Banerjee
University of Colorado Colorado Springs, CO, USA
vbanerje@uccs.edu
Gedare Bloom
University of Colorado Colorado Springs, CO, USA
gbloom@uccs.edu
Yanyan Zhuang
University of Colorado Colorado Springs, CO, USA
yzhuang@uccs.edu
ABSTRACT
Due to hardware limitations and low cost, manufacturers often
overlook security in widely deployed IoT devices, making them
susceptible to attacks. Malware is one such attack that can cause
extensive damage. In this work, we analyze a large corpus of IoT
malware to extract features that emerge from the shared develop-
ment and logistics in the malware development life cycle (MDLC),
which we name operational features. We use these features to for-
mulate a novel operational similarity concept for malware families
and variants that complements existing code and behavior analysis.
ACM Reference Format:
Minhajul Alam Rahat, Vijay Banerjee, Gedare Bloom, and Yanyan Zhuang.
2025. Poster Abstract: Operational Similarity in IoT Malware Development
Life Cycle. In The 23rd ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor
Systems (SenSys ’25), May 6–9, 2025, Irvine, CA, USA. ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 2 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3715014.3724036
1 INTRODUCTION
Over the past decade, IoT malware has rapidly evolved in sophisti-
cation, leading to the emergence of a plethora of malware families
and variants. The evolving IoT malware landscape makes malware
analysis challenging. Prior work on malware analysis is based on
two kinds of similarity analysis: code [ 4 ] and behavior [ 7 ]. Code
similarity [ 4] operates on the binary images of (suspected) mal-
ware samples to detect similarity in code structure [ 6 ]. Behavioral
similarity [ 7 ] observes the execution or malware remnants to find
patterns in malware behavior, such as network traffic or system
calls. However, IoT malware families often reuse existing functions
such as code that scans a network to discover vulnerable devices.
Prominent families like Mirai also have variants whose code and
behavior differ, e.g., by using different exploits to infect a device.
Consequently, distinct malware families may exhibit high code or
behavior similarity, and variants of the same family may appear
and behave differently. Using only code or behavior similarity for
malware analysis ignores such an underlying process.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that a shared operation—provided
by a digital quartermaster (DQ)—supports malware development
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
SenSys ’25, May 6–9, 2025, Irvine, CA, USA
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1479-5/25/05.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3715014.3724036
Set
Requirements
Design Implement
Configure
BuildPackage
P1
P2 P3
P4
P6 P5
Malware
Author
Digital
Quartermaster
Figure 1: The malware development life cycle (MDLC).
and logistics for several advanced persistent threats (APTs) [ 5 ].
Such a quartermaster may be considered a cyber arms dealer who
supplies malware operators (e.g., APTs) with tools and weapons. In
this work, we found evidence that such a shared operation lends it-
self to a third type of similarity based on the operational features.
Such features exist due to the shared services that support develop-
ment and logistics operations across multiple campaigns and APTs.
We systematically analyze over 26,000 IoT malware binaries [ 3],
58.94 GB of malware traffic [ 2], and the source code [ 1] of 116
variants of three IoT malware families: Mirai, Gafgyt, and Tsunami.
Our analysis reveals shared communication infrastructure, exploits,
evasion tactics, and other operational features.
2 OVERVIEW
The malware development life cycle (MDLC) consists of six major
phases, as shown in Figure 1. The requirements phase (P1) outlines
the malware’s goals and tactics, such as launching a DDoS attack.
The design phase (P2) specifies the modules needed to fulfill these
requirements. The implementation phase (P3) transforms the design
into functional components. This is followed by the configuration
phase (P4), where parameters are set to modify the behavior of
implemented modules, e.g., the type of DDoS attack the malware
executes and the packet structure used during attacks. The build
phase (P5) compiles the malware into an executable format, and
the package phase (P6) prepares it for deployment.
The MDLC involves two entities. A malware author implements
the malware from P1 to P3. The last three stages, P4, P5, and P6,
are handled by a digital quartermaster (DQ) [ 5], who is responsible
for distributing malware to malware operators, i.e., threat actors
capable of establishing footholds within targeted devices and car-
rying out attacks. Operational similarity emerges as a byproduct of
these three stages. Malware implemented in the first three stages
of MDLC is a baseline that allows the DQ to configure, build, and
29
SenSys ’25, May 6–9, 2025, Irvine, CA, USA Minhajul Alam Rahat, Vijay Banerjee, Gedare Bloom, and Yanyan Zhuang
Table 1: Operational features extracted from datasets.
MDLC Phase Operational Feature Feature Value(s) Description
Configure
Environment analysis Enumerated processes, e.g., /proc/$pid/exe,
/proc/$pid/cmdline
Extracts information about a victim device, such as process
enumeration.
Environment
modification
Modified configuration, e.g., /etc/rc.d/rc.
local
Modifies device configuration such as the run control (rc) files
to achieve persistence.
Command execution, e.g., iptables, kill Executes shell commands to modify the routing table or kill a
rival malware process.
Infection Default credentials, exploit code Uses default credentials or exploit code to infect a target device.
C&C communication Protocols, traffic patterns Uses similar protocols and traffic patterns to communicate with
a C&C server.
Build Encryption Encryption keys Uses similar encryption method but different keys to encrypt
plain-text strings in malware.
Package ELF header manipula-
tion Manipulated ELF header fields Manipulates ELF header field such as section header table (SHT)
information to avoid detection.
Environment
Analysis
Environment
Modification
Discover
and Infect
C&C
Communication
Bots
DDoS
Attack
Figure 2: Malware execution. Rectangles represent steps, ovals indi-
cate entities that the malware interact with, and dashed arrows are
network communication.
package malware, which is then distributed to the malware opera-
tors. This process generates artifacts, which we term operational
features, that may exist in malware source code, binaries, or I/O,
such as network traffic. Such features can be shared among different
families or configured differently in variants of the same family.
3 OPERATIONAL FEATURE ANALYSIS
To analyze operational features, we dissect a malware instance’s
execution and observe the features that may emerge during a DQ’s
configure, build, and package phases. A typical sequence of malware
execution is shown in Figure 2. After the malware has established a
foothold on a device, it begins (1) environment analysis in a victim
device, (2) environment modification to achieve persistence, (3)
discovery and infection of more victim devices and turn them into
bots, (4) setup an underlying network infrastructure to control these
bots remotely, such as through a C&C, and (5) carry out a DDoS
attack. Table 1 shows the operational features we observed. In the
following, we highlight some examples.
Configure. Environment analysis and modification are stages
where the malware explores the information about a victim device,
such as the existence of a rival malware instance, and modifies the
conditions unfavorable to its survival and functioning. The DQ of-
ten configures these stages in a similar way. For example, Mirai and
Gafgyt enumerate the virtual file system (/proc) to obtain runtime
information, and modify files in special directories (/etc) or exe-
cute commands to terminate a rival process. Miori, a Mirai variant,
reads /proc/$pid/cmdline, whereas another Mirai variant Sora
extracts executable names from /proc/$pid/exe. Both Miori and
Sora then match the executables with known malware names, and
kill such a process when a rival is found.
Once a victim device is turned into a bot, the C&C communi-
cation sets up an underlying network to control the bot. The DQ
configures the C&C communication in a similar way, such as the
protocols and traffic patterns used. For example, both Mirai and
Gafgyt bots communicate with a C&C server using TCP. Mirai’s
TCP communication uses a specific traffic pattern, where repeated
PSH ACK packets are exchanged between the Mirai bot and server.
Different Mirai variants are also configured with similar binary
strings as commands that are exchanged with the C&C server.
Build. Malware binary images may contain human-readable
strings that could reveal the behavior that the malware wants to
hide, such as IP addresses and file names. The DQ may setup neces-
sary encryption keys and link cryptography libraries to the binary
when malware source code is transformed into binary objects. Our
analysis found that Mirai variants use the same XOR encryption,
but different built-in keys. For example, the Katrina variant uses
the key 0xDEEDFBAF.
Package. After a malware binary is built, it will be prepared
for distribution through packaging, where evasion tactics may be
used. For example, some variants of Mirai, Gafgyt, and Tsunami are
packaged with corrupt ELF headers, where specific fields such as
the Section Header Table (SHT) are manipulated. The SHT contains
information of different sections in a binary. Manipulation of the
offset address and section size can throw off static analysis.
Acknowledgment
This work is supported in part by NSF grant OAC-2325369 and
Colorado State Bill 18-086.
REFERENCES
[1] 2019. TL-BOTS Dataset. https://github.com/threatland/TL-BOTS.
[2] 2020. Sebastian Garcia, Agustin Parmisano, Maria Jose Erquiaga. IoT-23: A labeled
dataset with malicious and benign IoT network traffic (Version 1.0.0) [Data set].
[3] 2021. Cube-Maliot-2021 Dataset. https://github.com/CrySyS/cube-maliot-2021.
[4] Irfan Ul Haq and Juan Caballero. 2021. A survey of binary code similarity. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR) 54, 3 (2021), 1–38.
[5] Ned Moran and James Bennett. 2021. Supply chain analysis: From quartermaster
to Sunshop, FireEye Labs White Paper.
[6] Minhajul Rahat, Vijay Banerjee, Gedare Bloom, and Yanyan Zhuang. 2024. Cimalir:
Cross-Platform IoT Malware Clustering using Intermediate Representation. In IEEE
14th Annual Computing and Communication Workshop and Conference (CCWC).
[7] Konrad Rieck, Thorsten Holz, Carsten Willems, Patrick Düssel, and Pavel Laskov.
2008. Learning and classification of malware behavior. In International Conference
on Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment. Springer.
30